>> Richard Feldman: Let's
move on to Pagination.
Guess some people call it Pagination,
I don't know, I always call it Pagination,
that's nothing to do for
the purpose of this workshop.
So basically we gonna
have a list of numbers,
each of them representing a different page
at the bottom of our feet of articles.
And when you use clicks on one, we want to
load a new page of articles, all right.
So, just a recap,
currently we have tags influencing, and
when you click on one of the tags,
that's our only form of interaction.
Clicking on a tab sends a message from
view to update, through the Elm runtime.
Update receives this message and says I
see you have a description and clickedTag,
and you have is let's say I clicked
on the cars tag this is great I'm
gonna update that to be our selected tag.
Which now we can do using
our fancy custom type and
have it render the appropriate
tab accordingly.
We also have a type alias for that called
type alias message which says description
is a string and data is a string,
which we did in the previous exercise.
And now we're gonna want to introduce
a new message for pagination.
So when the user clicks on one
of these inside of our view,
we're gonna want to specify another one
of these records that's going to say, hi.
Here was the page that
the user clicked on,
here's the description that
says they clicked on a page.
So we would have
description = ClickedPage,
Data = 2,and we have a problem.
So if I click on page two, that's kind of
what I want to happen in that situation
but we said in our message
that data is a string.
And I'm sure enough data is a string here,
it needs to be a string in order for
the functionality we already
built to continue working.
But here we've said that data is an int.
It can't be both,
[LAUGH] It's gonna be one or the other.
As previously noted its really important
that message have a consistent
type between view and update, and
certainly means that different parts of
view need to agree on a common format for
this message.
So one way we could fix this is we
could say we're gonna add some more
fields messages.
We shall have string data which is
the string and int data which is int, and
then we're gonna be like, okay, for
ClickedTag we're gonna have
a stringData is cars like before.
IntData is, I don't know,
it's not useful here so maybe it's -1?
Or, and then for ClickedPage we'll have,
stringData is not useful, so
I guess it will be empty string.
Then intData is 2, but you don't have
to think very far into the future
to realize this is not
gonna scale very well.
Like, every time I add a new
type of message to my program,
I need to go through and add an additional
field to the message, and then every
single other message everywhere in my
whole program, add another field to that.
And most of the time,
it's gonna be nonsense, so
I have to pick a nonsense value to use.
This is where we're gonna get out of hand.
This is really where we sort of
bombed up against the boundary of why
using records for
message is not really the best choice.
So in practice people don't
actually use records for message.
I just did that as a way to
sort of get us up and running.
In contrast, let's think about what
happens if we use a custom type for this.
Now we can say, we have two
variants of message, ClickedTag,
which holds on to a string, and
ClickedPage, which holds on to an int.
This precisely describes every single
possibility that we could have for
interaction on our program.
Either the user clicked a tag.
In which case, not only do we know they
clicked it, we also know which tag they
clicked, cuz we have that string
held on to inside the message.
Or, they clicked a page, in which case,
we have an int representing
the page they clicked.
If we add more types of interactions,
that's fine.
We can just keep adding variants, each
of which holds exactly the additional,
contextual information necessary,
for update to do its job.
Great, now this whole record gets
replaced by ClickedTag cars, and
this whole record gets
replaced by ClickedPage 2.
That's it.
So now, if this is our new message type,
we've gotten ride of the old type
alias message and
now we're using a custom type for it.
Update can say case msg of ClickedTag, in
which case we've got the selectedTag and
we're going to destructure
that in there and
give it a name just as if it
were a function argument.
And now we can inside the body of
this branch, use the selectedTag.
Or ClickedPage which has
the page number which is an int,
and then we can use that in here.
Now what's especially cool about this,
is that we don't have to put a default
branch like before we had to
have that else return the bottle on
change that is even come up here.
The best part of this is that if
we keep adding message types and
we ever forget to handle one and
update, it won't compile.
Elm will say, hey,
you introduced a new message type.
You're using that, but you didn't
actually write the logic to handle it.
You need to add a branch
to that case expression,
to handle the possibility that
the user does that interaction.
Also, if we ever delete one,
it will once again give us an error.
Also, if we add one that's
redundant with a previous one,
we already handled that somewhere else,
it'll gives us an error.
So, for many reasons, not just the number
of fields that we have to put in a record
to try and scale that out.
Custom types are just a, they fit
the use case of messages like a glove.
They're just the absolute best thing
we could use to represent this.
And it's sort of a wonderful
language feature that Elm has that
allows this to work.
Little known fact about Redux, if you're
familiar with Redux, you may have,
this may seem kind of familiar.
That's because Redux is actually
based on the architecture.
The history of Redux is that Dan Alvarov
was giving a talk at a conference,
wanted to implement time travel
debugging and hot reloading,
which is something that Elm
already had at the time.
And so he looked at Elm and tried to
figure out how Elm was able to do that,
and the answer was this architecture.
But of course,
JavaScript does not have custom types.
So he came up with an alternative that's
based on using JavaScript objects instead.
But some of the complaints
that people have about Redux,
don't actually apply to
the original Elm because,
when you have custom types a lot
of those things just don't exist.
Okay, so to use this to implement our
pagination bar down here, we can write
a page button on the view side that says
I'm gonna take an int for the current.
Page number that I'm going to display,
it's going to return HTML message.
It'll take that pageNumber as an argument,
and we'll say instead of onClick, and
then passing the description
record like we did before.
Now we will just say
ClickedPage pageNumber, and
that will return the message that we want.
Then that's what we'll get sent to update.
And then the text is just
String.fromInt pageNumber.
And now you've successfully
connected view and update,
using our nice custom types
to link everything together.